# Solar Output and Cost Prediction
This repo contains the code used to build the django app solarcalculator.xyz.  Code for the machine learning algorithms are contained in a separate repo, located <a href=https://github.com/iamlostcoast/solar-calculator-models>here</a>.

For a non-technical writeup on this project, head over to my <a href=https://medium.com/@evanbaker/predicting-solar-energy-production-with-machine-learning-19fcab295e58>article on Medium</a>

### Goal
My goal with this project is to build a tool that makes information regarding one’s potential for switching to solar available to a wider audience, bringing down the cost of sales and marketing. I accomplished this goal in three stages:
1. Building a machine learning model that predicts the annual energy production of a prospective solar installation.
2. Building a model that predicts installation cost.
3. Implementing these models on a user-friendly web app that shows users how much they should expect to save on their energy bill each year by switching to solar.

The final web app is up and running, and is available <a href=www.solarcalculator.xyz>here</a>. Using a random forest model, I was able to predict expected annual savings to around +/- $15.00, a 75% increase in accuracy over predictions generated by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL).

### Files
There are a few files included in this repo.  The technical report ipython notebook includes code related to data collection, exploratory analysis, and model building.  It contains two primary models, one a random forest model that predicts annual energy production, and an elastic net model that predicts installation cost.

The data cleaning notebook contains info regarding processes for cleaning data collected from the OpenPV project, and dataset of over 1 million solar panel installations across the US.

The NREL query python file is a script that was run every 24 hours for 2 weeks on an AWS EC2 instance in order to gather solar radiation data for the 15,000 ZIP codes worth of data included in the OpenPV dataset.

### Questions
for any questions about the work here feel free to email me at evancasebaker@gmail.com.
